This paper examines teacher beliefs and practices regarding the inclusion of learners diagnosed with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). It aligns with @koutsoklenis2023's perspective that ADHD is a cognitive difference rather than a medical disorder. The paper assumes that accommodating learners with ADHD is part of normal teaching practice.

# ADHD: How it Manifests

ADHD often manifests in the classroom through problematic behaviour, poor school performance, inability to sit still, impatience, answering questions without raising hands, or daydreaming. Persistent patterns of inattention, disorganisation, and hyperactivity-impulsivity are typical [@AmericanPsychiatricAssociation2022]. ADHD significantly impacts academic performance due to difficulties in sustaining attention and completing tasks. Social interactions may also suffer, leading to issues in forming and maintaining relationships [@barkley2014]. ADHD symptoms vary across age groups as children's brains develop [@biederman2000age].

According to the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [@CDC2024], approximately 11.5% of U.S. children aged 3-17 have been diagnosed with ADHD. ADHD occurs in approximately 6–10% of Australian children and adolescents and 2–6% of adults [@graetz2001validity; @sawyer2018adequacy]. This high prevalence of ADHD challenges the notion that it is a disorder and suggests that it is a normal variation within the population.

The NSW Department of Education [@nsw_education_2021] provides evidence-based strategies for ADHD. Many other resources are available. For example, the United States' not-for-profit organisation, Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (CHADD), offers practical approaches to recognising ADHD in the classroom and various strategies for managing it [@chadd2023].

Teachers play a critical role in identifying ADHD due to the demands of the school environment, which may reveal symptoms of inattention not present at home. Their experience with children of similar age and development aids in identifying ADHD [@seixas2012guidelines]. Attention problems may become more apparent with boring or cognitively challenging tasks [@AmericanPsychiatricAssociation2022]. Impulsivity symptoms can lead to relationship problems with parents or friends [@leffa_adhd_2022].

Teachers should be aware of the high comorbidity rate of ADHD with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) [@lai2019prevalence]. These are distinct conditions, each requiring specific management practices, even if there is some overlap. This is also true for conditions such as intellectual disabilities and behavioural disorders like oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) [@AmericanPsychiatricAssociation2022], as well as anxiety and major depression [@arnold2011pediatric].

People with ADHD, particularly adolescents, have a three times higher risk of drug use disorders [@deSchipper2015] and increased risks of sexually transmitted diseases, teenage pregnancies, and accidents and injuries [@leffa_adhd_2022].

ADHD is associated with dysregulation of dopamine pathways in the brain, particularly in the prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia, which are critical for attention, impulse control, and executive function [@AmericanPsychiatricAssociation2022; @willcutt2005validity]. Executive functions (EF) are cognitive processes essential for controlling behaviour and achieving goals. Impairment in these areas affects working memory, making it difficult to follow instructions, complete tasks, and organise activities. Additionally, it impacts cognitive flexibility, planning, organisation, and emotional regulation [@willcutt2005validity].

Given the integral nature of dopamine to ADHD, lifestyle factors such as diet, exercise, video games, and social media are key. While evidence that dietary restrictions are effective is scant [@NiggHolton2014], sufficient protein is a key precursor for dopamine production, which can be impacted by conditions such as coeliac disease that can reduce vitamin B12 levels [@Akmatov2021].

Sleep is also critical for managing ADHD [@sciberras_2022]. ADHD symptoms may be more pronounced in tired students, and high rates of sleep issues are associated with ADHD [@becker2020adhd]. Stimulants, a common treatment for ADHD, can also cause sleep issues due to dose timing